---
title: NC01 Tablet PC
description: My journey with a NC01 Tablet PC, from Windows to Linux
date: 2023-02-26
preview: ""
tags:
  - tablet pc
  - linux
categories: ""
lastmod: 2023-02-26T15:36:05.085Z
draft: false
---


# NC01 Tablet PC
## Description
In July 2021 I bought this tablet to run a windows software used by our family business in a portable way. I was immediately discontent with the system language not being fully translated and after some testing, I was also dissatisfied with its speed. What made me decide to try some things though, was that it was having trouble with a windows update that never worked.

Before discussing what I have tried, below are some basic specs of the tablet (taken from the vendor's page):

| Name      | Description |
| ---       | ---         |
| **Model** | NC01        |
| **Processor** | Intel Atom x5-z8300 @ 1.44 - 1.84ghz quad core |
| **RAM**   | 4GB         |
| **Storage** | 128GB     |
| **Screen**    | 11.6 LCD |
| **Resolution** | 1920 x 1080 IPS, Capacitive, 10 Points Multi-touch |
| **WIFI** | 802.11b/g/n |
| **Bluetooth** | Yes,BT 4.0 |
| **HDMI** | mini HDMI connection |
| **MicroSD** | Slot for microSD card of up to 256GB

## First try: Formatting Windows
I decided to try and install Windows 10 again in hopes of fixing language issues and making it faster. As a result, I couldn't get it to boot because of missing drivers. To solve it I had to contact the vendor and they sent me a Baidu drive link which I found difficult to download, and after finally downloading it what I got was some sort of backup file that I had a hard time finding out how to use it.
Thankfully when I searched for it today I found a post where they extracted the drivers and made it easier for anyone who wants to reinstall Windows on this tablet.
If you`re interested [click here](https://blog.gp96.com.br/2022/04/drivers-notebooktablet-panda-nc01.html) and good luck.

## Second try: Linux system
Not satisfied with Windows I decided to try a Linux distribution. If I recall correctly, I started with Xubuntu cause I thought XFCE being lighter would make it faster. I guess it was faster but a lot of things didn't work (like the touchscreen) so, instead of trying to make it work, I decided to try Ubuntu with Gnome first.

Ubuntu looked better but had the same problems as Xubuntu, while also feeling slower. I decided to continue with it and started a quest to fix things. I'll not go into specifics because most of that won't be relevant anymore and later I'll write another article on how I got to fix things that do still need fixing, just know that I got the touchscreen and automatic screen rotation to work. I almost got the sound to work after a lot of attempts but I only got to the point where it would play for at most 1 minute I think and then would play an annoying sound continuously, it would only stop if I closed whatever was playing the audio. Never got the cameras to work.

## Third try: Android
Android worked pretty well but depending on the BIOS setting wifi and Bluetooth would not work or, they would work but screen rotation would not. Some apps crash because the system is x86.

## Fourth try: Manjaro, another Linux system
My favorite to this point since I got almost everything to work. Had some issues at first but they seem to be mostly because of some BIOS settings I changed, turns out that if you change the OS option from Windows 8.1 to Android the screen rotation and some other stuff don't work.

As of now, I'm writing this on VSCode using Manjaro and it's been a good experience, I think the cameras are the only things that I couldn't get to work.


































